Android is an open – source software platform created by Google and the Open Handset Alliance.

	Android is a software stack for mobile devices that includes an operating system, middleware and key applications.

	The Android SDK provides the tools and the APIs necessary to begin developing applications on the Android platform using the Java Programming Language.
	Android is a software environment built for mobile devices and not a Hardware platform.

	Features:-
	Attractive UI
	Provide Easy Connectivity
	Storage:- SQLite,a lightweight relational database, is used for data storage purposes.
	Resizable widgets
	Multi-tasking etc…
 
Advantages for Android developer
	Open Source (Free to Download and Use)
	Source Code Freely available
	Customizable UI
	Easy App Approvals
	Multi-Network App Distribution
	Low Investment
	Constantly Updating with New Features
	85% Users are Using Android Devices
 

Disadvantages for Android developer
	Few Devices Support Newer	version
	Device Issues: Storage Limit; Drains Battery; Overheating
	Internal Apps Occupy more spaces
	Device Defects
	Defects in Apps and Play Store
	So Many Devices there so Developer need to Focus on it.

History of Android:
	The code names of android ranges from A to N currently, such as …
	Aestro,
 
	Blender,
	Cupcake,
	Donut,
	Eclair,
	Froyo,
	Gingerbread,
	Honeycomb,
	Ice Cream Sandwitch,
	Jelly Bean,
	KitKat,
	Lollipop,
	Marshmallow
	Nougat.
	O
	P


Tools required to start development

	Android Studio
	JDK
	Genymotion (Android emulator for developers)


Applications:
	Android will ship with a set of core applications including an email client, SMS Program, Calendar, Maps, Browser, Contacts and others.
	All applications are written using the Java Programming Language.

Applications component

	Application components are loosely coupled by the application manifest file AndroidManifest.xml that describes each component of the application and how they interact.

	There are following four main components that can be used within an Android application.


Application Framework

	Android offers developers the ability to build extremely rich and innovative applications.
	Developers are free to take advantage of the device hardware, access location information, run background services and much more.
	The Application architecture is designed to simplify the reuse of components.
	Any applications can publish its capabilities and any other application may then make use of those capabilities.
 
Libraries
	Android includes a set of C/C++ libraries used by the various components of the Android System.

Android Runtime
	Android includes a set of core libraries that provides most of the functionality available in the core libraries of the Java Programming Language.
	Every Android Application runs in its own process, with its own instance of the Dalvik virtual machine.
	Dalvik has been written so that a device can run multiple VMs efficiently.
	The Dalvik VM executes files in the Dalvik Executable(.dex) format which is optimized for minimal memory footprint.
 
Cont...
	Android includes a set of core libraries that provides most The VM is register-based.

	It runs classes and compiles by Java Language Compiler.
	It transforms these classes into the .dex format by included “dx” tool.
 
Linux Kernal
	Android relies on Linux version 2.6.

	It provides the core system services such as security, memory management, process management, networks and driver models.
	The kernel also acts as an abstraction layer between the hardware and the rest of the software stack.
